=head1 NAME

pkgupd - Monitor repositories and AUR for package updates

=head1 SYNOPSIS

Usage: pkgupd [options]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

pkgupd monitors repositories and AUR for package updates. It makes a sandbox
pacman database and syncs it periodically. It will never touch your original
pacman database.

=head2 Communicating with the server

Clients can poll the server for updates either through a TCP socket or through
a UNIX socket, depending on how the program has been invoked. The protocol is
very simple, but it may change in the future.  To ask for an update the client
sends a JSON string as such. JSON strings B<must> be followed by a new line
character C<\n>. Everything after the new line character is discarded.

 { "RequestType": "[ServiceType]" }\n

C<[ServiceType]> can be currently either C<repo> or C<aur> for, although more
can be added in the future. C<repo> prints all updatable packages that are
backed by a repository and C<aur> all updatable packages that are found in AUR.
Packages missing from either services are never reported.

The format of the server's response is

 { "ResponseType": "[Type]", "Data": "..." }\n

C<[Type]> can either be C<ok> or C<error>. In case of an error C<Data>
contains the error message. If no error occurred C<Data> will be a list
of packages. The format of a package is:

 {
   "Name" : "...",
   "LocalVersion" : "...",
   "RemoteVersion" : "...",
   "Foreign" : "[true|false]"
 }

New lines are added for clarity. There are no new lines in the response except
for the final one, so you can safely delimit the responses at new lines.
C<Name> is the name of the package, C<LocalVersion> is the currently installed
version of the package, C<RemoteVersion> is the updatable version either on the
repository or in AUR and C<Foreign> indicates whether the package is backed by
a repository (C<false>) or not (C<true>).

=head2 Bundled client

A simple python client is included C<pkgupd_cli>. Check C<pkgupd_cli -h> for
options. Also a simple wrapper around the client C<upkg> is provided that uses
the most common options to connect to the server. It works with the systemd
service out of the box. You can write your clients if you want!

=head2 Systemd service

pkgupd distribution also includes a systemd service and an associated
environment file C</etc/conf.d/pkgupd>. Any option mentioned here can be used
in the configuration file.

=head1 OPTIONS

=head2 -s, --enable-sync

Enable the automatic synchronization of databases.

=head2 -a, --enable-aur

Check for updates of local packages in AUR.

=head2 --sync-interval

The interval, in seconds, between two database synchronizations.

=head2 --aur-interval

The interval, in seconds, between two AUR checks.

=head2 --poll-interval

The interval, in seconds, between two checks for updates.

=head2 --pacman-conf

The path of the pacman.conf configuration file. pkgupd needs access to your
pacman configuration so that it can auto-discover repositories and servers.

=head2 -v, --verbose

Enable verbose logging

=head2 -d, --db-root

The path of the sandboxed pacman database. B<Do not use the default pacman
directory>. Any other folder will do. pkgupd will populate the directory
accordingly.

=head2 -l, --listen-type

Choose the communication protocol for the server. Available options are C<tcp>,
for a TCP socket, and C<unix>, for a UNIX socket.

=head2 -r, --listen-addr

This is either the port or the socket file depending on whether the server is
listening on a TCP socket or a UNIX socket.

=head2 -m, --monitor-changes

Add an inotify watch on the pacman database. When a database update occurs, for
example when a package is updated, the server will update itself accordingly.

=head2 -h, --help

Show a short help message

=head1 BUGS

When the inotify watch is enabled there is no way to tell how many foreign packages
have been updated, so an updated is triggered after B<every> single package update.

Please report any bugs to the author.

=head1 LICENSE

The program is distributed under the GPL3 license

=head1 AUTHOR

Spyros Stathopoulos <spystath@gmail.com>

